
games

Usage: games [#, word]

  If no parameters are given, "games" lists all the games currently being
played on the server.  The games are listed in order of the ratings of the
players involved.  If a number is supplied as a parameter, only the game
matching that number is displayed.  If a word (or even a single letter) is
supplied, only games involving players whose handles begin with that word are
displayed.  For example, "games gr" will show all games involving players
whose handles begin with "gr".

  Here is a sample games display and what the symbols mean:
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
25 (Exam.    0 Friar          0 Friar     ) [ uu  0   0] W:  1
28 ++++ TryMe       1737 Jack       [ su 30  20]  22:27 - 23:17 (29-30) W: 16
 2 2274 OldManII    ++++ Peshkin    [ bu  2  12]   2:34 -  1:47 (39-39) B:  3
29 1622 Vman        1609 PopKid     [ sr 10  10]   1:14 -  5:10 (21-22) B: 18
32 1880 Raskapov    1859 RoboDweeb  [ br  2  12]   1:04 -  1:26 ( 9-10) B: 34
 1 1878 Roberto     1881 baraka     [psr 45  30]  30:35 - 34:24 (22-22) W: 21

  6 games displayed (of 23 in progress)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Reading from left to right: (i) game number; (ii) rating of user playing
White; (iii) handle of White, (iv) rating of user playing Black; (v) handle of
Black; (vi) type of match and time controls, (vii) current clock times for
both players; (viii) current material strength for both players, (ix) who is
on move and what move number it will be, and, lastly (x) the number of games
listed in the display and how many in progress.  Ratings are ++++ for
unregistered players and ---- for registered players who do not have a rating
in this category.  Lastly, any games being examined are displayed.


TYPE OF MATCH -- The format will be [Private] | [Category] | [Rated].

  Private -- If a "p" is given, the game is private and not open for
observation.  If not private, the space will be blank.  (See the "variables"
help file.)

  Category -- The possibilities are:
       b   blitz
       d   bughouse
       l   lightning
       n   nonstandard game, such as different time controls for the players
       s   standard
       u   untimed (including simul-matches, simuls)
       w   wild

  Rated -- The possibilities are "r" for rated and "u" for unrated.


See Also:  blitz  examine  lightning  match  simuls  standard  variables 
untimed

[Last modified: December 19, 1995 -- Friar]

